In the previous episode, we implemented the replace methods on the TicketController and
the AuthorTicketsController, and that handles the put requests.
Now we need to handle the patch requests by implementing the update method.
Now, handling a patch request is a little bit more involved because a put request is
very easy.
We're just taking all of the data, and all of the data is supposed to be involved with
a put request.
We update all of the attributes, and we're done.
With a patch request, we might have one attribute, we might have two attributes, but we aren't
going to have all of them.
Well, I guess we could, but if you're going to replace all of the attributes, you might
as well use a put.
So in this case, we are going to have to check to see what was provided in the request, and
then only update those attributes.
So things can get very messy very quickly, but we're going to try to keep things as clean
as possible.
Now, I just implemented the routes for the patch requests.
Now we just need to implement the code.
So let's start by taking the code from the replace method, because that's going to give
us everything that we would think we would need.
But let's take a look at this.
So this is grabbing all of the input data, the title, description, status, and the author
ID, building this model array so that we can update that model.
And that's great for a put, not for a patch, because we need to check, well, do we have
title?
If we do, then we need to update that.
Do we have description?
No.
Then we don't need to update that.
And there's a lot of if statements, or at least a lot of checking involved, and I definitely
don't want to do that here inside of the controller.
And really, I don't even like what we did for the replace method and for the store methods
where we built that model array.
Instead, I would like to have maybe one line of code here.
And that's something that we can easily do, actually, because we could use our request
to have, let's say that we'll have a method called mapped attributes.
And we'll say that the job of this mapped attributes method is to take the input data,
check to see if that input data is there, and then build an array that contains only
the attributes that we need to update.
That's going to work perfectly for a patch request.
It's going to work perfectly for a put request, and even for a post request, because in those
cases all of the attributes are required.
So this is going to be great.
So our code is going to look like this, basically, so that instead of creating that array, it's
going to be done behind the scenes inside of our request.
So that all we have to do is pass that mapped attributes to the update method, and we're
done.
So we could do that for the replace method, and we could do that for creating that model.
So let's go to the store method.
Let's get rid of that model array so that then all we need to do is just implement this
method.
Now, because we are going to be using this in, well, every ticket request, it kind of
makes sense to create a base class for all of our ticket requests.
So let's start with our replace ticket request.
Let's just copy that.
We will rename the copy to BaseTicketRequest, and we, of course, need to change the name
of that class.
But here we can just specify the things that we will need for our base ticket.
For example, we don't need to really specify the authorize, because that will be handled
in the child classes.
And really the same thing for the rules.
So we can get rid of the rules, but the messages method we would need inside of the store ticket
request, the update ticket request, and the replace ticket request, because we need to
validate and provide our custom message for the status.
So that's going to be great.
We can get rid of messages here inside of replace ticket request.
Let's open up the store ticket request, and we will get rid of messages there.
We do need to inherit that base ticket request, but that's going to be easy enough to do.
So let's be sure to do that in all three requests.
And here for update, since we haven't done anything with this, we need to authorize that
to true.
Our rules here is going to be very similar to replace.
In fact, we could just grab that code and paste that inside of our rules.
The only change that we need to make, though, is instead of required, this is sometimes
required.
So we'll make that change, and our rules are going to be fine.
And that's practically it here.
So we can close all of these files so that we can focus on our base ticket.
So we want this method called mapped attributes.
So let's define that.
And the first thing that we need to do is build a map between the input keys, which
are in line with data.attributes.status.
I'm just going to refer to those as data attributes.
Let's open up at least one of these so that we can copy and paste here.
But our attribute map is going to look like this, where the key is our data attributes,
and then the value is going to be the attribute on the model.
So there's the title, there's the description, there's the status, and then we also want
the author ID.
But I guess we should also go ahead and include the createdAt and updatedAt attributes as
well.
So we will have those and then updatedAt.
So this is our map.
We're just taking what is provided as a key from the request and mapping that as the attribute
name as the value.
So with that in place, then we need to build an array that contains the attributes that
we want to update, so that then we will iterate over our attribute map.
We will see if the request contains the key so that we can get its value and add that
to our attributes to update.
So we'll have a forEach attribute map as, and we'll break this down into key and then
attribute.
And we will check if the request has the input key, then we will add the model attribute
to our attributes to update, and we'll set its value to whatever value was provided for
the input key.
And that's going to be it, so that then we can just return attributes to update, and
we're going to go there.
That should work.
I don't think that there's any other thing that I missed, but we will definitely find
out.
Let's go to Postman.
Let's copy the put request for our ticket, and we will just need to make a few changes
here.
Of course, we need to change this to Patch, and the name will be Patch Ticket.
And this already has a body here, but we only want to specify one or two of these values
so that we can see if it's actually going to update things.
So this was Ticket with an ID of 101.
Let's make sure that we have that fresh data.
Okay, so the title was Changed Title 2, then Description.
So I tell you what, let's change the title, let's change the status.
And if that works, we'll just call that done, and then we will move on.
So for our Patch request, we will get rid of everything else because, well, we are patching
this.
We aren't replacing everything.
So the title, we'll say, is Changed Title 3, and we'll leave the description alone,
but we will change the status to C for Completed.
And let's send that request.
It looks like, yes, our title changed, our status changed.
Let's make sure, and let's make a GET request for that resource.
Sure enough, that data has been updated.
So perfect.
That works just fine.
Now we need to implement this functionality inside of our Author Tickets controller.
So let's do that, and let's just copy the replace method because that's basically everything
that we need to do except that we, of course, need to change the name to Update.
The request needs to be Update Ticket Request.
We will still have the Author ID and the Ticket ID.
We still need to get that ticket, or at least try to get the ticket.
We need to make sure that the Ticket's user ID is the provided Author ID, but then we'll
get rid of this code because we will use the RequestMappedAttributes method.
So that's going to work just fine there.
Then we can use this method inside of our Others.
So for our Replace, we will get rid of that model, and we will use our RequestMappedAttributes,
and let's go to the Store method here.
Since all of this worked for our normal Tickets controller, I'm just going to assume that
it's going to work here.
But you know what they say about assumption, so I guess we better test this.
So let's go to our Users container, and let's duplicate the PutUserTicket.
This is going to be the PatchUserTicket.
And before we do anything else, let's make a GetRequest for this.
So we will get all of the tickets for the Author ID of 1, and the ID of 20 for that
ticket is the first one.
So we can see that the PutRequest works.
We will change that to PatchRequestWorks.
We'll set the status to OnHold.
So let's go to our PatchRequest.
Let's change the type of request to Patch, and then for the body, once again, we don't
need all of these things, but we will change the title to PatchRequest.
Let's change the description to implement the Update method, and let's leave the status
alone.
So we should be able to send that request.
We get a response.
We can see that that ticket was updated.
So everything is working just fine.
We now have the ability to completely update a resource, both with a PutRequest and a PatchRequest.
And so in the next episode, we will start working with token abilities so that we can
control what users can and cannot do.